updated ESP UPN and troubleshooting for private endpoint (#41611)
Azure/azure-content: articles/hdinsight/hadoop/apache-hadoop-use-hive-beeline.md

### Over public or private endpoints

When connecting to a cluster using the public or private endpoints, you must provide the cluster login account name (default `admin`) and password. For example, using Beeline from a client system to connect to the `<clustername>.azurehdinsight.net` address. This connection is made over port `443`, and is encrypted using SSL:

```bash
beeline -u 'jdbc:hive2://clustername.azurehdinsight.net:443/;ssl=true;transportMode=http;httpPath=/hive2' -n <username> -p password
```

or for private endpoint:

```bash
beeline -u 'jdbc:hive2://clustername-int.azurehdinsight.net:443/;ssl=true;transportMode=http;httpPath=/hive2' -n <username> -p password
```

Replace `clustername` with the name of your HDInsight cluster. Replace `<username>` with the cluster login account for your cluster. Note for ESP clusters use the full UPN (e.g. user@domain.com). Replace `password` with the password for the cluster login account.

> Private endpoints point to a basic load balancer which can only be accessed from the VNETs peered in the same region. See [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-faq#what-are-the-constraints-related-to-global-vnet-peering-and-load-balancers) for more info. You can use `curl` command with `-v` option to troubleshoot any connectivity problem to with public or private endpoints before using beeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Private endpoints point to a basic load balancer which can only be accessed from the VNETs peered in the same region. See [constraints on global VNet peering and load balancers](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-faq#what-are-the-constraints-related-to-global-vnet-peering-and-load-balancers) for more info. You can use `curl` command with `-v` option to troubleshoot any connectivity problem to with public or private endpoints before using beeline.
```
